# CDN
CDN stands for Content Delivery Network. It is a network of distributed servers strategically located across
various geographical locations. The primary purpose of a CDN is to deliver web content to users more
efficiently and reliably.
When a user requests content from a website, such as images, videos, CSS files, or JavaScript files, the CDN
serves that content from the nearest server location to the user's geographical location. This reduces
latency and accelerates the delivery of content, leading to faster loading times and a better user experience.

# LIBRARY vs FRAMEWORK
FRAMEWORK - strict (framework is a set of rules that provides a foundation for building applications.)
LIBRARY - little lenient (library is a collection of reusable code modules or functions that can be imported )

# REACT
Its a JavaScript library which helps in writing complex user interfaces.
** React can work on any portion of the webpage (not necessarily we need to apply it on the whole webpage).

# REACT and REACT-DOM
They are the main libraries for any react web development project.
REACT = It provides the fundamental building blocks for creating user interfaces with components,state management, and rendering logic.It can be used to create UIs for various platforms, including web, mobile, and desktop.

REACT-DOM = ReactDOM primarily handles reconciliation and the diffing algorithm.
ReactDOM provides methods for taking the virtual DOM representation of React components and translating it into actual DOM operations that the browser understands.

# WHY NodeJS ?
React doesn't depend on node but the bundlers and packages used by most React developers do.
(Webpack, Babel etc.) So while React doesn't need node to run, most people install node for development.
You would be spending a lot of time building your own solution for bundling, transpiling, optimizing outside
of node. The web development packages built on node(npm) are too much of a time saver.
NODE is the environment and npm is the tool that runs in that env.. commands that make our life a lot easier.

# NPM
Node Package Manager, commonly known as npm, is the default package manager for Node.js.The term "npm" is used
to refer to both the command-line tool (Node Package Manager) and the online package registry (npm Registry
/npm repository). npm is used to install, share, and manage dependencies in JavaScript projects.
** While Node.js is a common runtime for many JavaScript packages, the npm registry is not exclusive to Node.js.
It is a central repository for a wide range of JavaScript packages that can be utilized in various environments
and platforms.

# BUNDLERS
A module bundler provides a method for arranging and merging multiple JavaScript files into a unified single file. Using a JavaScript bundler becomes necessary when your project outgrows a single file or when dealing with libraries with numerous dependencies. As a result, the end-user's browser or client doesn't have to fetch numerous files individually.  
Essentially, a bundler's operation can be broken down into two primary stages: generating a dependency graph and subsequently bundling the required elements.To do this, the bundler requires an entry file which should ideally be your main file. It then parses through this entry file to understand its dependencies.  
Webpack , vite , parcel are some bundlers.  
The code needs to be bundled for several reasons:
- Reduced HTTP Requests: (loading a single file vs multiple)
- Optimized Load Times: (minification and compression of the code)
- Dependency Management: (combining them into a single file in the correct order of execution)

# BABEL (transpiler)
Babel is a JavaScript compiler that allows developers to write code using the latest ECMAScript (ES) standards
(or even future standards) and then transpile that code into an older version of JavaScript that can be
executed by current browsers or environments. It also converts JSX.

# CRA
create-react-app is a utlitity software that automatically provides us a boilerplate to start our react project 
and installs all the packages related to the Build process.(it installs webpack bundler)

