# NPM install
The npm install command installs packages specifically within your project folder,not globally on your system
npm install -g <package-name>
This installs the package globally on your system, making it available for use in any project.

# package.json
npm utilizes a package.json file to manage project metadata and dependencies. This file includes information
about the project, its dependencies, and various configuration settings. It keeps track of which version of the dependency we are using. 

# package-lock.json
Keeps track of exact version of dependency and their transitive dependencies. Gets updated when we update dependencies. Ensures that the project behaves consistently across installations.
When a package is installed, it may bring along its own dependencies. package-lock.json records the versions of these transitive dependencies as well, ensuring that their versions are locked down. Without package-lock.json, these transitive dependencies could potentially be updated to different versions during installation, leading to inconsistencies.

# NPM vs NPX
npm vs npx (both come with the NodeJs installation)
-> Npm is a tool that use to install packages.
-> Npx is a tool that use to execute packages.

# BUILD PROCESS
Process of making react code in browser friendly format.

# Single Page Application
React codes are single page applications. We insert and remove content to give perception to users that there are other pages too.

# VIRTUAL DOM
React VirtualDOM is nothing but an object (with nesting) that acts as a representation of the actual DOM.

# Reconcialation - diff between DOM tree and VirtualDOM tree.
It is the process of comparing the current state of the UI (virtual DOM) with the desired state (new virtual DOM) and updating the UI to reflect the changes.

# Fibre 
Fibre is the latest implementation of reconciliation
Its headline feature is incremental rendering: the ability to split rendering work into chunks and spread it out over multiple frames.

# Dependencies = Dev Dependencies and Normal Dependencies
npm install -D -> tell npm it is a dev dependency.

# npm init 
The npm init command is used to initialize a new Node.js/React project and creates a package.json file, which is a metadata file for the project. 

# ^ vs ~ 
The caret (^) allows for more flexibility in updating dependencies by permitting minor version updates,
while the tilde (~) restricts updates to only the latest patch versions within a fixed minor version.Neither the caret (^) nor the tilde (~) operators will update to a new major version of a dependency. 

# node_modules = actual data (code in JS)

# browserlist 
Developers often use tools like Babel or Autoprefixer, which leverage the "browserlist" configuration to determine which transformations and optimizations are necessary for the target browsers.Other browsers may also work that are not in the browserlist.but all the browsers will definitely work that are in the browserlist.

# npm scripts 
just a way to save time and get away from big commands.
syntax -> npm run script
npm run start -> npm start (only works for start)
This shorthand is provided by npm for convenience and is specifically designed for start.

# CORS
Today, browsers enforce that clients can only send requests to a resource with the same origin as the client's URL. The protocol, port, and hostname of the client's URL should all match the server it requests.
For example, consider the origin comparison for the below URLs with the 
client URL http://store.aws.com/dir/page.html.

URL                                             Outcome                                  Reason

http://store.aws.com/dir2/new.html              Same origin                             Only the path differs

http://store.aws.com/dir/inner/other.html       Same origin                             Only the path differs   

https://store.aws.com/page.html                 Different origin                        Different protocol

http://store.aws.com:81/dir/page.html           Different origin  Different port (http:// is port 80 by default)

http://news.aws.com/dir/page.html               Different origin                        Different host


So, the same-origin policy is highly secure but inflexible for genuine use cases.

