## Dont use CDN for REACT
CDN is not a good way to bring React to our project.Versions may change of React in future also fetching a network resource could be expensive.

## Vite
Component names should be capital cased -> good practice
Vite requires us to have .jsx extension for any Component file.
It also is a good general convention to name Component files jsx. 

## Other React Environments
The DOM is just one of the rendering environments React can render to, the other major targets being native
iOS and Android views via React Native. (This is why "virtual DOM" is a bit of a misnomer.)
The reason it can support so many targets is because React is designed so that reconciliation and rendering 
are separate phases. The reconciler does the work of computing which parts of a tree have changed; the
renderer then uses that information to actually update the rendered app.
This separation means that React DOM and React Native can use their own renderers while sharing the same
reconciler, provided by React core.

## Fragments in react
Use Fragment, or the equivalent <>...</> syntax, to group multiple elements together. You can use it to put
multiple elements in any place where a single element can go. For example, a component can only return 
one element, but by using a Fragment you can group multiple elements together and then return them as a group.

## Updating Dependencies
Suppose I have version 2.4 of react as my dependency then it gets a newer version 2.5 so if i use ^
in package.json does the react dependency automatically gets updated ?

Yes, if you use the caret ^ symbol in your package.json to specify your React dependency version, it indicates 
that you're willing to accept updates for the dependency as long as they are backward-compatible with
the specified version.
For example, if you have "react": "^2.4" in your package.json, it means that you are using version
2.4 of React, but you're willing to accept any new version of React that is greater than or equal to 2.4
but less than 3.0 (since the caret symbol considers only the non-major version updates to be
backward-compatible).
If a newer version like 2.5 becomes available, running npm install or npm update will update your react
dependency to version 2.5, as long as it is compatible with the range specified in your package.json.

## What goes into Production
When you push your React code to production, the package.json file itself is not sent to the user's browser.
The package.json file is primarily used for managing dependencies and scripts for your project during
development.
What gets sent to the user's browser are the files that are generated after building your React application.
When you build a React project for production, the build process generates static files (such as HTML, CSS,
and JavaScript files) that are optimized for performance and ready to be served to users.

## When React RE-RENDERs
- Re-render the component when the state and/or props change
- Change in the value of the Context Store
- Re-render when change in key prop (avoid triggering re-rendering with key props.)
(changing keys is just unnecessary Re-rendering)

## Controlled vs Uncontrolled Component
Controlled components in React are those in which form data is handled by the component’s state. The drawback to using controlled components is that the number of states in a component increases as more control elements are added to the form element.

Uncontrolled components are those for which the form data is handled by the DOM itself. “Uncontrolled” refers to the fact that these components are not controlled by React state. We can use id's or better
refs to access form element values.