# STATE IN REACT

Components often need to change what’s on the screen as a result of an interaction.Components need to
“remember” things: the current input value, the current image, the shopping cart. In React, this kind
of component-specific memory is called state.

1. Local variables don’t persist between renders. When React renders this component a second time, it renders
   it from scratch—it doesn’t consider any changes to the local variables.
2. Changes to local variables won’t trigger renders. React doesn’t realize it needs to render the component
   again with the new data.
   
3. State is local to a component instance on the screen. In other words, if you render the same component twice,
each copy will have completely isolated state! Changing one of them will not affect the other.
Unlike props, state is fully private to the component declaring it.

4. What if you wanted both components to keep their states in sync? The right way to do it in React is to
remove state from child components and add it to their closest shared parent.


## The position in the UI Tree matters to REACT 

App-> some condition  -> true `<BoxComponent with state count>`  
                      -> false`<BoxComponent with state count>`  
    when we change the condition from true or false we may expect react to reset the count 
    as we will render a different component but React doesn’t know where we have placed the 
    conditions . All it "sees" is the tree we return. In both cases the App component has 
    BoxComponent as first child. To React these two BoxComponents have the same address:
    the first child of the first child of the root.
    This is how React matches them up btw the previous and next renders , regardless of how
    we structure our logic.
    Consequently if we have different components at the same "address" it would trigger a re render
    of the whole subtree.

here toggling isPlayerA only changes the prop of Counter Component 
it still maintains the same state inside counter that is both of them share state.
```
{isPlayerA ? (
   <Counter person="Taylor" />
   ) : (
   <Counter person="Sarah" />
)}
```

Specifying a key tells React to use the key itself as part of the position, instead of their order within
 the parent. This is why, even though you render them in the same place in JSX, React sees them as two
 different counters, and so they will never share state.
 ```
{isPlayerA ? (
  <Counter key="Taylor" person="Taylor" />
) : (
  <Counter key="Sarah" person="Sarah" />
)}
```


State can hold any kind of JavaScript value, including objects. But you shouldn’t change objects and arrays
that you hold in the React state directly. Instead, when you want to update an object and array, you need
to create a new one (or make a copy of an existing one), and then update the state to use that copy.
Usually, you will use the ... spread syntax to copy objects and arrays that you want to change.

```
import { useState } from 'react';

export default function Form() {
  const [person, setPerson] = useState({
    name: 'Niki de Saint Phalle',
    artwork: {
      title: 'Blue Nana',
      city: 'Hamburg',
      image: 'https://i.imgur.com/Sd1AgUOm.jpg',
    }
  });

  function handleNameChange(e) {
    setPerson({
      ...person,
      name: e.target.value
    });
  }
}
```

React, keeps a track record of all its virtual DOM. Whenever a change happens, all the components are rendered
and this new virtual DOM is then compared with the old virtual DOM. Only the differences found are then
reflected in the original DOM.

So, it’s obvious from the statement that if we mutate the state directly, it will change the reference of the
state in the previous virtual DOM as well. So, React won’t be able to see that there is a change of the state
and so it won’t be reflected in the original DOM until we reload.
( during a reload or initial render in React, the latest virtual DOM (Document Object Model) is used to 
render the UI.)

```
<Parent>
  <Child1>
  // change in state of child1 happens
      <Child3>

      </Child3>
   </Child1>
   <Child2>
   </Child2>
</Parent>
```
When a component in React undergoes a re-render due to a state or prop change, its entire subtree will be 
re-rendered, regardless of whether the descendants have actually changed their state or props.

```
const addValue = () => {
    // do like this if you want to do sequential updates
    setCounter(prevCounter => prevCounter + 1)
    setCounter(prevCounter => prevCounter + 1 )
    setCounter(prevCounter => prevCounter + 5)
    setCounter(prevCounter => prevCounter + 1)

    // this is not good this will cause trouble 
    setCounter(Counter + 1)
    setCounter(Counter + 1 )
    setCounter(Counter + 5)
    setCounter(Counter + 1)
    //
}
```
**VVIMP**  
- **When you give a component state, you might think the state “lives” inside the component. But the state is actually held inside React.**  
- **React associates each piece of state it's holding with the correct component by where that component sits in the render tree.**  
- **React preserves a component’s state for as long as it’s being rendered at its position in the UI tree. If it gets removed, or a different component gets rendered at the same position, React discards its state.**
