## useState
- The useState Hook provides those two things:
  1. A state variable to retain the data between renders.
  2. A state setter function to update the variable and trigger React to render the component again.

- When you call useState, you are telling React that you want this component to remember something

- You might have noticed that the useState call does not receive any information about which state
variable it refers to.
Internally, React holds an array of state pairs for every component. It also maintains the current pair index,
which is set to 0 before rendering. Each time you call useState, React gives you the next state pair and
increments the index.

- Why you cannot call `use` hooks within conditionals or loops ?  
= We are dealing with a cursor pointing to a set of arrays, if you change the order of the calls within render,
  the cursor will not match up to the data and your use calls will not point to the correct data or handlers.

- const [counter , setCounter] = useState(5); 
In React, the useState hook returns an array with two elements: the current state value and a function
that allows you to update that state. 
- React takes care of re-rendering the component with the updated state when you use the state updater
function returned by useState. The const here is simply stating that you cannot reassign a new value to counter directly, but you can update its value using the provided setCounter function.
```
{
    // This is not allowed
    counter = 10;
}
```
- Anything that can be stored in a JavaScript variable can be stored in a state managed by useState.

- Never directly modify an object or array stored in useState. Instead, you should create a new updated version of the object or array and call setState with the new version. 

- The update function doesn’t update the value right away

- If you use the previous value to update state, you must pass a function that receives the previous value and returns an updated value, for example, `setMessage(previousVal => previousVal + currentVal)`

- If you use the same value as the current state to update the state, React won’t trigger a re-render
### Initializing state
You can also use a function to lazily initialize the variable. This is useful when the initial state is the result of an expensive computation, as shown below:

```
const Message= () => {
   const messageState = useState( () => expensiveComputation() );
   /* ... */
}
```