## UseMemo
- UseMemo helps us to avoid doing expensive computations unnecessarily.
- useMemo takes two arguments:
    - A chunk of work to be performed, wrapped up in a function
    - A list of dependencies
- During mount, when this component is rendered for the very first time, React will invoke this function to run all of this logic  
- useMemo is essentially like a lil’ cache, and the dependencies are the cache invalidation strategy.

- ### memo
Like a force field, `React.memo` wraps around our component and protects it from unrelated updates. Our Component will only re-render when it receives new data, or when its internal state changes.

This is known as a pure component. Essentially, we're telling React that this component will always produce the same output given the same input, and we can skip the re-renders where nothing's changed.

general way to use memo
```
// ExampleComponent.js
function ExampleComponent() {
  /* Component stuff here */
}
export default React.memo(ExampleComponent);
```
- Interesting use case of Use Memo
```
const Parent = () =>
{
    const obj/arr = ()=>{// generation of object/arrray}
    <Child data={obj/arr}>
}

const Child = ({obj}) =>{

}
export default React.memo(Child)
```
The above will still re render everytime despite using memo if the parent component re renders.  
**Why ??** = Note that simple data types — things like strings, numbers, and boolean values — can be compared by value. But when it comes to arrays and objects, they're only compared by reference. So each time we would have
a new object or array and hence the re render.  
**Solution** = const obj/arr = useMemo(()=>{// generation of object/arrray},[])


## USE_CALLBACK
useCallback is a React Hook that lets you cache a function definition between re-renders.
Here's the short version: It's the exact same thing, but for functions instead of arrays / objects.

const cachedFn = useCallback(fn, dependencies)
On the initial render, useCallback returns the fn function you have passed.

During subsequent renders, it will either return an already stored fn  function from the last render
(if the dependencies haven’t changed), or return the fn function you have passed during this render.
Similar to arrays and objects, functions are compared by reference, not by value.  
**useCallback is syntactic sugar**. It exists purely to make our lives a bit nicer when trying to memoize callback functions.  
You need to pass two things to useCallback:
`useCallback(function helloWorld(){}, []);`
A function definition that you want to cache between re-renders.
A list of dependencies including every value within your component that’s used inside your function.