## USE_REF
The useRef hook is one of the built-in hooks in React. You can use it to persist or preserve values between re-renders. The useRef hook takes an initial value of any type as argument and returns an object with a single current property.

const ref = useRef(initialValue);

React will set the initialValue you pass to the useRef hook as the value of the current property of the returned ref object. As an example, if the initialValue is the boolean value true, then the ref object returned by the useRef hook will be { current: true }. If you don't pass an initial value, the current property will be undefined.

```
import { useRef } from "react";

const MyComponent = () => {
  const inputRef = useRef(null);

  return <input ref={inputRef} type="text" />;
};
```
In the code above, we created a ref object using the useRef hook and set it as the value of the ref attribute. After constructing the DOM Node and the input element is visible on the screen, React will set the DOM Node as the value of the ref object's current property.

You can now access the input element using the current property of the ref object and manipulate it using any of the DOM methods. Similarly, if you remove the DOM node from the screen, React will set the value of the current property back to null.

### A comon use-case that does actually come up somewhat frequently is holding on to a reference of a state value so you can diff the previous value with current value.

### Use case: implementing a stopwatch  
You can store inside a reference infrastructure data of side effects: timer ids, socket ids, etc.

The component Stopwatch uses setInterval(callback, time) timer function to increase each second the counter
of a stopwatch. The timer id is stored in a reference timerIdRef:
```
        import { useRef, useState, useEffect } from 'react';

        function Stopwatch() {
        const timerIdRef = useRef(0);
        const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

        const startHandler = () => {
            if (timerIdRef.current) { return; }
            timerIdRef.current = setInterval(() => setCount(c => c+1), 1000);
        };

        const stopHandler = () => {
            clearInterval(timerIdRef.current);
            timerIdRef.current = 0;
        };

        useEffect(() => {
            return () => clearInterval(timerIdRef.current);
        }, []);

        return (
            <div>
            <div>Timer: {count}s</div>
            <div>
                <button onClick={startHandler}>Start</button>
                <button onClick={stopHandler}>Stop</button>
            </div>
            </div>
        );
        }
```


You can point a ref to any value. However, the most common use case for a ref is to access a DOM element.
For example, this is handy if you want to focus an input programmatically. When you pass a ref to a ref
attribute in JSX, like <div ref={myRef}>, React will put the corresponding DOM element into myRef.current.
Once the element is removed from the DOM, React will update myRef.current to be null.

### Functional Components cannot be referred by a useRef like HTML DOM elements.
