# Code Splitting 
As an application grows, the size of its bundles also grows and, at some point, its bundles will be so large that they will take a long time to load.
This is where the code splitting technique comes in. Code splitting consists of separating the code into several packages or components that can be loaded on demand or in parallel.

The React.lazy() function allows you to load a component lazily, which means it is loaded only when needed. Combined with the Suspense component, you can provide a smooth loading experience while waiting for the lazily loaded component to be fetched and rendered.  
**The function passed to lazy doesn't execute immediately. It's only called when the component is first rendered in the JSX.** 
The lazy function returns a promise that resolves to the imported component once it's loaded (from the server).
After that React triggers a re-render to show the component.

Here’s an example:
```
import React, { lazy, Suspense } from 'react';

const LazyComponent = lazy(() => import('./LazyComponent'));

const App = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>My React App</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <LazyComponent />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  );
};

export default App;
```
In this example, the code for LazyComponent won’t be loaded until you attempt to render it. If LazyComponent hasn’t loaded yet, Loading will be shown in its place.  
While the code technically works without Suspense, it's highly recommended to use Suspense for a better user experience.  
Using this pattern requires that the lazy component you’re importing was exported as the default export.