# React Router DOM
## Shortcut
- use Link to go to a path and its associated element on a click.
- use navigate = useNavigate() when you want to programatically go to a route.
- use `<Navigate>` when you want to render a route.(for example on a redirect route's element)

## BrowserRouter
Naturally, in order to do its thing, React Router needs to be both aware and in control of your app's location. The way it does this is with its BrowserRouter component.

Under the hood, BrowserRouter uses both the history library as well as React Context. The history library helps React Router keep track of the browsing history of the application using the browser's built-in history stack, and React Context helps make history available wherever React Router needs it.

There's not much to BrowserRouter, you just need to make sure that if you're using React Router on the web, you wrap your app inside of the BrowserRouter component.

(If you're using React Router in an environment that isn't the browser, check out MemoryRouter and StaticRouter.)


## Route
Put simply, Route allows you to map your app's location to different React components. For example, say we wanted to render a Dashboard component whenever a user navigated to the /dashboard path. To do so, we'd render a Route that looked like this.
```
<Route 
  path="/dashboard" 
  element={<Dashboard />} 
/>
```

## Routes
The Routes component is used to define a set of route definitions for your application.  
The Routes component renders the first Route component whose path matches the current URL.
This enables conditional rendering based on the current URL, allowing you to display different components for different URLs.

## Link
Now that you know how to map the app's location to certain React components using Routes and Route, the next step is being able to navigate between them. This is the purpose of the Link component.

To tell Link what path to take the user to when clicked, you pass it a to prop.
```
<nav>
  <Link to="/">Home</Link>
  <Link to="/about">About</Link>
  <Link to="/settings">Settings</Link>
</nav>
```

## URL Parameters
Take Wikipedia for example. When you visit a topic on Wikipedia, you'll notice that the URL pattern is always the same, wikipedia.com/wiki/{topicId}.

Instead of defining a route for every topic on the site, they can declare one route with a placeholder for the topic's id. The way you tell React Router that a certain portion of the URL is a placeholder (or URL Parameter), is by using a : in the Route's path prop
`<Route path="/wiki/:topicId" element={<Article />} />`  
Now the question becomes, how do you access the dynamic portion of the URL – in this case, topicId – in the component that's rendered?
React Router comes with a useParams Hook that returns an object with a mapping between the URL parameter(s) and its value. Using the same wikipedia example we have  
```
import * as React from 'react'
import { useParams } from 'react-router-dom'
import { getArticle } from '../utils'

function Article () {
  const [article, setArticle] = React.useState(null)
  const { topicId } = useParams()

  React.useEffect(() => {
    getArticle(topicId)
      .then(setUser)
  }, [topicId])

  return (
    ...
  )
}
```
And the syntax for using a link will be  
`<Link to={`/wiki/${topicId}`}> ... </Link>`

## Nested Routes
```
function App() {
  return (
    <Routes>
      <Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
      <Route path="/messages" element={<Messages />}>
        <Route path=":id" element={<Chats />} />
      </Route>
      <Route path="/settings" element={<Settings />} />
    </Routes>
  );
}
```
You declaratively nest the child Route as a children of the parent Route. The child Route is now relative to the parent, so you don't need to include the parent (/messages) path.

Now, the last thing you need to do is tell React Router where in the parent Route (Messages) should it render the child Route (Chats).

To do this, you use React Router's Outlet component.

```
import { Outlet } from "react-router-dom";

function Messages() {
  return (
    <Container>
      <Conversations />

      <Outlet />
    </Container>
  );
}
```

If the app's location matches the nested Route's path, this Outlet component will render the Route's element. So based on our Routes above, if we were at /messages, the Outlet component would render null, but if we were at /messages/1, it would render the <Chats /> component.

## Pass props to Router Components
`<Route path="/dashboard" element={<Dashboard authed={true} />} />`

## Programmatically Navigate
React Router offers two different ways to programmatically navigate, depending on your preference. 
- The imperative navigate method 
To get access to the imperative navigate method, you'll need to use React Router's useNavigate Hook. From there, you can pass navigate the new path you'd like the user to be taken to when navigate is invoked.
```
import { useNavigate } from 'react-router-dom

function Register () {
  const navigate = useNavigate()

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Register</h1>
      <Form afterSubmit={() => navigate('/dashboard')} />
    </div>
  )
}
```
- The declarative Navigate component.
Navigate works just like any other React component, however, instead of rendering some UI, it navigates the user to a new location.
```
import { Navigate } from "react-router-dom";

function Register() {
  const [toDashboard, setToDashboard] = React.useState(false);

  if (toDashboard === true) {
    return <Navigate to="/dashboard" />;
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Register</h1>
      <Form afterSubmit={() => toDashboard(true)} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Query Strings
You've almost certainly run into query strings before. They're the ? and & you see appended onto URLs.
- Query String Example
    - twitter.com/search?q=ui.dev&src=typed_query&f=live  

As of v6, React Router relies heavily on the **URLSearchParams API** to deal with query strings. URLSearchParams is built into all browsers (except for IE) and gives you utility methods for dealing with query strings. To do this, React Router comes with a custom useSearchParams Hook which is a small wrapper over URLSearchParams.
Using the Twitter URL we saw above, here's how we would get the values from our query string using useSearchParams.
```
import { useSearchParams } from 'react-router-dom'

const Results = () => {
  const [searchParams, setSearchParams] = useSearchParams();

  const q = searchParams.get('q')
  const src = searchParams.get('src')
  const f = searchParams.get('f')

  return (
    ...
  )
}
```
Then if we needed to update the query string, we could use setSearchParams, passing it an object whose key/value pair will be added to the url as &key=value.  

## Catch all (404) Pages
All you have to do is render a Route with a path of *, and React Router will make sure to only render the element if none of the other Routes match.
```
<Routes>
  <Route path="*" element={<NotFound />} />
  <Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
  <Route path="/about" element={<About />} />
  <Route path="/settings" element={<Settings />} />
</Routes>
```
The order of the children Routes doesn't matter since Routes is intelligent – meaning an algorithm now determines which is the best Route to render.

## Pass props to Link / same works with Navigate Component
To pass data through a Link component to a new route, use Link's state prop.
We can pass any type of data in state prop.
```
<Link to="/onboarding/profile" state={{ from: "occupation " }}>
  Next Step
</Link>
```
Anytime you pass data along via the state prop, that data will be available on the location's state property, which you can get access to by using the custom useLocation Hook that comes with React Router.
```
import { useLocation } from 'react-router-dom'

function Profile () {
  const location = useLocation()
  const { from } = location.state

  return (
    ...
  )
}
```
### useLocation
The `useLocation` hook in React Router is used to return the current location of a React component. The `useLocation` returns the current location as an object and comes with props such as
- pathname = the path of a given component
- state = set in component that links to / or navigates to the given component
- search = 
- key
- hash

## Code Splitting and Routing
```
import * as React from "react";
import { BrowserRouter as Router, Routes, Route, Link } from "react-router-dom";

import Loading from "./Loading";

const Home = React.lazy(() => import("./Home"));
const Topics = React.lazy(() => import("./Topics"));
const Settings = React.lazy(() => import("./Settings"));

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Router>
      <div>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <Link to="/">Home</Link>
          </li>
          <li>
            <Link to="/topics">Topics</Link>
          </li>
          <li>
            <Link to="/settings">Settings</Link>
          </li>
        </ul>

        <hr />

        <Suspense fallback={<Loading />}>
          <Routes>
            <Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
            <Route path="/topics" element={<Topics />} />
            <Route path="/settings" element={<Settings />} />
          </Routes>
        </Suspense>
      </div>
    </Router>
  );
}
```
Notice we do need to wrap out lazy Routes inside of React.Suspense. What's nice about React.Suspense is that Suspense can take in multiple, lazily loaded components while still only rendering one fallback element.

Now instead of loading our entire app up front, React will only load our Home, Topics, and Settings components when they're needed.

## Client Side Routing
Client side routing allows your app to update the URL from a link click without making another request for another document from the server. Instead, your app can immediately render some new UI and make data requests with fetch to update the page with new information.

### Error Bubbling
When a route does not have an errorElement, errors will bubble up through parent routes.

