# NPM install
The npm install command installs packages specifically within your project folder,not globally on your system
npm install -g <package-name>
This installs the package globally on your system, making it available for use in any project.

# package.json
npm utilizes a package.json file to manage project metadata and dependencies. This file includes information
about the project, its dependencies, and various configuration settings. It keeps track of which version of the dependency we are using. 

# package-lock.json
Keeps track of exact version of dependency and their transitive dependencies. Gets updated when we update dependencies. Ensures that the project behaves consistently across installations.
When a package is installed, it may bring along its own dependencies. package-lock.json records the versions of these transitive dependencies as well, ensuring that their versions are locked down. Without package-lock.json, these transitive dependencies could potentially be updated to different versions during installation, leading to inconsistencies.

# NPM vs NPX
npm vs npx (both come with the NodeJs installation)
-> Npm is a tool that use to install packages.
-> Npx is a tool that use to execute packages.

# BUILD PROCESS
Process of making react code in browser friendly format.

# Single Page Application
React codes are single page applications. We insert and remove content to give perception to users that there are other pages too.

# VIRTUAL DOM
React VirtualDOM is nothing but an object (with nesting) that acts as a representation of the actual DOM.

# Reconcialation - diff between DOM tree and VirtualDOM tree.
Reconciliation is the process /algorithm(React Fibre) behind what is popularly understood as the "virtual DOM" A high-level description goes something like this: when you render a React application, a tree of nodes that describes the app is generated and saved in memory. This tree is then flushed to the rendering environment —
for example, in the case of a browser application, it's translated to a set of DOM operations.
When the app is updated (usually via setState), a new tree is generated. The new tree is diffed with the
previous tree to compute which operations are needed to update the rendered app.

# Dependencies = Dev Dependencies and Normal Dependencies
npm install -D -> tell npm it is a dev dependency.

# npm init 
The npm init command is used to initialize a new Node.js/React project and creates a package.json file, which is a metadata file for the project. 

# ^ vs ~ 
The caret (^) allows for more flexibility in updating dependencies by permitting minor version updates,
while the tilde (~) restricts updates to only the latest patch versions within a fixed minor version.Neither the caret (^) nor the tilde (~) operators will update to a new major version of a dependency. 

# node_modules = actual data (code in JS)

# browserlist 
Developers often use tools like Babel or Autoprefixer, which leverage the "browserlist" configuration to determine which transformations and optimizations are necessary for the target browsers.Other browsers may also work that are not in the browserlist.but all the browsers will definitely work that are in the browserlist.

# npm scripts 
just a way to save time and get away from big commands.
syntax -> npm run script
npm run start -> npm start (only works for start)
This shorthand is provided by npm for convenience and is specifically designed for start.

# CROSSORIGIN
The "crossorigin" attribute is an HTML attribute used primarily with the <script> and <link> elements to
specify how the browser should handle loading resources.
The "crossorigin" attribute can have the following values:
"anonymous": This is the default value. It indicates that the resource should be fetched without sending any 
credentials (such as cookies or HTTP authentication). It is suitable for publicly available resources.
"use-credentials": This value indicates that the browser should include credentials (such as cookies or HTTP
authentication) when fetching the resource. It is suitable for resources that require authentication.

